[MUSIC]
In problem one, we're going to
look at how to use column charts.
We're being asked to look at
routes that have had the biggest
change in passenger
capacity in the last year.
Let's start by taking a look at the data
set that we have been provided.
The first two columns of
the table contain the FlightID and
a RouteID which identify the flight and
the route flown by that flight.
The following two columns provide the
Passenger Volumes for both 2014 and 2015.
We're going to use the last column
that is currently empty to calculate
the percentage change in passenger
volume between 2014 and 2015.
The first question in this exercise
asks us to calculate the change
percentage in column G.
The formula to calculate this value is
going to be passenger volume in 2015 minus
the passenger volume in 2014 divided
by the total passenger volume for 2014.
So let's get started by
clicking on cell G15 and
typing = followed by (.
Next, we're going to select
the passenger volume in 2015,
which can be found in Cell F15.
Then, we type minus,
followed by the passenger volume in
2014 which can be found in Cell E15.
Now that we have the difference in
passenger volumes between 2014 and
2015, let’s close this part of the
calculation by typing parenthesis close,
since we want to divide this by
the total passenger volume in 2014.
Next, we type divide
followed by cell E15 and
we close the formula by pressing Enter.
We can now see that for flight number 9,
the passenger volume increased
by 20% between 2014 and 2015.
Now that we have validated that
our formula works correctly,
let's go ahead and
copy it down the rest of the table.
The order of the data in this table
will be replicated in a graph.
Hence, we're going to want to sort
the data before creating the graph.
To do this,
we're going to select cell G14.
And navigate to the editing
section on the home tab.
Next, we click on the sort and
filter button.
And select sort a through z from the menu.
As you can see,
the Chicago to Seattle route has
experienced the largest
decrease in passenger volumes.
Remember the charting principles
that we discussed previously.
Less data helps you send
a clearer message to the audience.
Our focus here is on
determining the routes for
which the passenger volumes
have changed the most.
Hence, we don't need to include the data
that is in column C, E, or F in our chart.
So let's go ahead and select the two
columns that we're interested in by
holding down the Ctrl key, and
selecting the values in column D and G.
Once the data has been selected,
we're going to click on the Insert tab
on the ribbon, and
select the Recommended Charts option.
From here, we select the clustered
column chart, which creates our graph.
We’re going to spend some
time formatting this chart so
that it conveys the message that we're
trying to share with our audience.
First, let’s move the chart so that it
is no longer on top of the data table.
We do this by clicking on the chart and
dragging it into the desired position.
Next, we are going to change
the title of our chart
to something that is more
descriptive of what is being shown.
Let's click on the title,
select the placeholder text, and
replace it with % change in
passenger volume for each route ID.
We also want to make sure that we adjust
the positioning of the axis labels, so
that they become legible to the audience.
To do this, we're going to right
click on the horizontal axis.
And select the Format Axis
option from the menu.
In the Format Axis panel,
we're going to scroll down and
expand the Labels category.
Next, we click on the Label Position
drop-down and select Low.
As you can see, the axis labels are now
below the negative outcomes making
the route IDs easier to read.
We are also going to add titles to
the horizontal and vertical axises.
This is done by clicking on a chart,
going to design tab, and
selecting the add chart element option.
We click on access titles and
then we select a primary horizontal.
In the primary vertical options.
To edit the axis titles we just created,
we're going to click on the box for
the horizontal axis title, and
replace the text with route ID.
Same thing for the vertical axis.
Let's click on the title.
And replace it with,
% change from 2014 to 2015.
It would also be helpful to change the
colors of the bars to helps us distinguish
between the positive and
the negative changes in passenger volumes.
To do this we're going to click one of the
bars in order to select the data series.
Now that we have selected the bars
representing the negative changes, we're
going to bring up the format data point
panel by right clicking on our selection.
We're going to click on the fill option
and select a shade of red from the drop
down menu to represent the fact that
these are decreases in passenger volumes.
We now have a column chart
that shows us the changes in
passenger volumes between 2014 and
2015 across all routes.
We can see that despite a couple of
routes losing passengers, overall,
most routes increased their passenger
volumes between 2014 and 2015.
[MUSIC]